README.md, before:

# vTeam: Ambient Agentic Runner

> Kubernetes-native AI automation platform for intelligent agentic sessions with multi-agent collaboration

## Overview

**vTeam** is an AI automation platform that combines Claude Code CLI with multi-agent collaboration capabilities. The platform enables teams to create and manage intelligent agentic sessions through a modern web interface.

### Key Capabilities

- **Intelligent Agentic Sessions**: AI-powered automation for analysis, research, content creation, and development tasks
- **Multi-Agent Workflows**: Specialized AI agents model realistic software team dynamics
- **Kubernetes Native**: Built with Custom Resources, Operators, and proper RBAC for enterprise deployment
- **Real-time Monitoring**: Live status updates and job execution tracking

## Architecture

The platform consists of containerized microservices orchestrated via Kubernetes:

| Component | Technology | Description |
|-----------|------------|-------------|
| **Frontend** | NextJS + Shadcn | User interface for managing agentic sessions |
| **Backend API** | Go + Gin | REST API for managing Kubernetes Custom Resources (multi-tenant: projects, sessions, access control) |
| **Agentic Operator** | Go | Kubernetes operator that watches CRs and creates Jobs |
| **Claude Code Runner** | Python + Claude Code CLI | Pod that executes AI with multi-agent collaboration capabilities |

### Agentic Session Flow

1. **Create Session**: User creates agentic session via web UI with task description
2. **API Processing**: Backend creates `AgenticSession` Custom Resource in Kubernetes
3. **Job Scheduling**: Operator detects CR and creates Kubernetes Job with runner pod
4. **AI Execution**: Pod runs Claude Code CLI with multi-agent collaboration for intelligent analysis
5. **Result Storage**: Analysis results stored back in Custom Resource status
6. **UI Updates**: Frontend displays real-time progress and completed results

## Prerequisites

### Required Tools
- **OpenShift Local (CRC)** for local development or OpenShift cluster for production
- **oc** (OpenShift CLI) or **kubectl** v1.28+ configured to access your cluster  
- **Docker or Podman** for building container images
- **Container registry access** (Docker Hub, Quay.io, ECR, etc.) for production
- **Go 1.24+** for building backend services (if building from source)
- **Node.js 20+** and **npm** for the frontend (if building from source)

### Required API Keys
- **Anthropic API Key** - Get from [Anthropic Console](https://console.anthropic.com/)
  - Configure via web UI: Settings → Runner Secrets after deployment

## Quick Start

### 1. Deploy to OpenShift

Deploy using the default images from `quay.io/ambient_code`:

```bash
# From repo root, prepare env for deploy script (required once)
cp components/manifests/env.example components/manifests/.env
# Edit .env and set at least ANTHROPIC_API_KEY

# Deploy to ambient-code namespace (default)
make deploy

# Or deploy to custom namespace
make deploy NAMESPACE=my-namespace
```

### 2. Verify Deployment

```bash
# Check pod status
oc get pods -n ambient-code

# Check services and routes
oc get services,routes -n ambient-code
```

### 3. Access the Web Interface

```bash
# Get the route URL
oc get route frontend-route -n ambient-code

# Or use port forwarding as fallback
kubectl port-forward svc/frontend-service 3000:3000 -n ambient-code
```

### 4. Configure API Keys

1. Access the web interface
2. Navigate to Settings → Runner Secrets
3. Add your Anthropic API key

## Usage

### Creating an Agentic Session

1. **Access Web Interface**: Navigate to your deployed route URL
2. **Create New Session**:
   - **Prompt**: Task description (e.g., "Review this codebase for security vulnerabilities and suggest improvements")
   - **Model**: Choose AI model (Claude Sonnet/Haiku)
   - **Settings**: Adjust temperature, token limits, timeout (default: 300s)
3. **Monitor Progress**: View real-time status updates and execution logs
4. **Review Results**: Download analysis results and structured output

### Example Use Cases

- **Code Analysis**: Security reviews, code quality assessments, architecture analysis
- **Technical Documentation**: API documentation, user guides, technical specifications
- **Project Planning**: Feature specifications, implementation plans, task breakdowns
- **Research & Analysis**: Technology research, competitive analysis, requirement gathering
- **Development Workflows**: Code reviews, testing strategies, deployment planning

## Advanced Configuration

### Building Custom Images

To build and deploy your own container images:

```bash
# Set your container registry
export REGISTRY="quay.io/your-username"

# Build all images
make build-all

# Push to registry (requires authentication)
make push-all REGISTRY=$REGISTRY

# Deploy with custom images
cd components/manifests
REGISTRY=$REGISTRY ./deploy.sh
```

### Container Engine Options

```bash
# Use Podman instead of Docker
make build-all CONTAINER_ENGINE=podman

# Build for specific platform
# Default is linux/amd64
make build-all PLATFORM=linux/arm64

# Build with additional flags
make build-all BUILD_FLAGS="--no-cache --pull"
```

### OpenShift OAuth Integration

For cluster-based authentication and authorization, the deployment script can configure the Route host, create an `OAuthClient`, and set the frontend secret when provided a `.env` file. See the guide for details and a manual alternative:

- [docs/OPENSHIFT_OAUTH.md](docs/OPENSHIFT_OAUTH.md)

## Configuration & Secrets

### Session Timeout Configuration

Sessions have a configurable timeout (default: 300 seconds):

- **Environment Variable**: Set `TIMEOUT=1800` for 30-minute sessions
- **CRD Default**: Modify `components/manifests/crds/agenticsessions-crd.yaml`
- **Interactive Mode**: Set `interactive: true` for unlimited chat-based sessions

### Runner Secrets Management

Configure AI API keys and integrations via the web interface:

- **Settings → Runner Secrets**: Add Anthropic API keys
- **Project-scoped**: Each project namespace has isolated secret management
- **Security**: All secrets stored as Kubernetes Secrets with proper RBAC

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**Pods Not Starting:**
```bash
oc describe pod <pod-name> -n ambient-code
oc logs <pod-name> -n ambient-code
```

**API Connection Issues:**
```bash
oc get endpoints -n ambient-code
oc exec -it <pod-name> -- curl http://backend-service:8080/health
```

**Job Failures:**
```bash
oc get jobs -n ambient-code
oc describe job <job-name> -n ambient-code
oc logs <failed-pod-name> -n ambient-code
```

### Verification Commands

```bash
# Check all resources
oc get all -l app=ambient-code -n ambient-code

# View recent events
oc get events --sort-by='.lastTimestamp' -n ambient-code

# Test frontend access
curl -f http://localhost:3000 || echo "Frontend not accessible"

# Test backend API
kubectl port-forward svc/backend-service 8080:8080 -n ambient-code &
curl http://localhost:8080/health
```

## Production Considerations

### Security
- **API Key Management**: Store Anthropic API keys securely in Kubernetes secrets
- **RBAC**: Configure appropriate role-based access controls
- **Network Policies**: Implement network isolation between components
- **Image Scanning**: Scan container images for vulnerabilities before deployment

### Monitoring
- **Prometheus Metrics**: Configure metrics collection for all components
- **Log Aggregation**: Set up centralized logging (ELK, Loki, etc.)
- **Alerting**: Configure alerts for pod failures, resource exhaustion
- **Health Checks**: Implement comprehensive health endpoints

### Scaling
- **Horizontal Pod Autoscaling**: Configure HPA based on CPU/memory usage
- **Resource Limits**: Set appropriate resource requests and limits
- **Node Affinity**: Configure pod placement for optimal resource usage

## Development

### Local Development with OpenShift Local (CRC)

**Single Command Setup:**
```bash
# Start complete local development environment
make dev-start
```

**What this provides:**
- ✅ Full OpenShift cluster with CRC
- ✅ Real OpenShift authentication and RBAC  
- ✅ Production-like environment
- ✅ Automatic image builds and deployments
- ✅ Working frontend-backend integration

**Prerequisites:**
```bash
# Install CRC (macOS)
brew install crc

# Get Red Hat pull secret (free):
# 1. Visit: https://console.redhat.com/openshift/create/local
# 2. Download pull secret to ~/.crc/pull-secret.json
# 3. Run: crc setup

# Then start development
make dev-start
```

**Hot Reloading (optional):**
```bash
# Terminal 1: Start with development images
DEV_MODE=true make dev-start

# Terminal 2: Enable file sync for hot-reloading
make dev-sync
```

**Access URLs:**
- Frontend: `https://vteam-frontend-vteam-dev.apps-crc.testing`
- Backend: `https://vteam-backend-vteam-dev.apps-crc.testing/health`
- Console: `https://console-openshift-console.apps-crc.testing`

### Building from Source
```bash
# Build all images locally
make build-all

# Build specific components
make build-frontend
make build-backend
make build-operator
make build-runner
```

## File Structure

```
vTeam/
├── components/                     # 🚀 Ambient Agentic Runner Platform
│   ├── frontend/                   # NextJS web interface
│   ├── backend/                    # Go API service
│   ├── operator/                   # Kubernetes operator
│   ├── runners/                   # AI runner services
│   │   └── claude-code-runner/    # Python Claude Code CLI service
│   └── manifests/                  # Kubernetes deployment manifests
├── docs/                           # Documentation
│   ├── OPENSHIFT_DEPLOY.md        # Detailed deployment guide
│   └── OPENSHIFT_OAUTH.md         # OAuth configuration
├── tools/                          # Supporting development tools
│   ├── vteam_shared_configs/       # Team configuration management
│   └── mcp_client_integration/     # MCP client library
└── Makefile                        # Build and deployment automation
```

## Production Considerations

### Security
- **RBAC**: Comprehensive role-based access controls
- **Network Policies**: Component isolation and secure communication
- **Secret Management**: Kubernetes-native secret storage with encryption
- **Image Scanning**: Vulnerability scanning for all container images

### Monitoring & Observability
- **Health Checks**: Comprehensive health endpoints for all services
- **Metrics**: Prometheus-compatible metrics collection
- **Logging**: Structured logging with OpenShift logging integration
- **Alerting**: Integration with OpenShift monitoring and alerting

### Scaling & Performance
- **Horizontal Pod Autoscaling**: Auto-scaling based on CPU/memory metrics
- **Resource Management**: Proper requests/limits for optimal resource usage
- **Job Queuing**: Intelligent job scheduling and resource allocation
- **Multi-tenancy**: Project-based isolation with shared infrastructure

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please follow these guidelines to ensure code quality and consistency.

### Development Workflow

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Make your changes following the existing patterns
4. Run code quality checks (see below)
5. Add tests if applicable
6. Commit with conventional commit messages
7. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
8. Open a Pull Request

### Code Quality Standards

#### Go Code (Backend & Operator)

Before committing Go code, run these checks locally:

```bash
# Backend
cd components/backend
gofmt -l .                    # Check formatting
go vet ./...                  # Run go vet
golangci-lint run            # Run full linting suite

# Operator
cd components/operator
gofmt -l .                    # Check formatting
go vet ./...                  # Run go vet
golangci-lint run            # Run full linting suite
```

**Install golangci-lint:**
```bash
go install github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/cmd/golangci-lint@latest
```

**Auto-format your code:**
```bash
# Format all Go files
gofmt -w components/backend components/operator
```

**CI/CD:** All pull requests automatically run these checks via GitHub Actions. Your PR must pass all linting checks before merging.

#### Frontend Code

```bash
cd components/frontend
npm run lint                  # ESLint checks
npm run type-check            # TypeScript checks (if available)
npm run format                # Prettier formatting
```

### Testing

```bash
# Backend tests
cd components/backend
make test                     # Run all tests
make test-unit                # Unit tests only
make test-integration         # Integration tests

# Operator tests
cd components/operator
go test ./... -v              # Run all tests

# Frontend tests
cd components/frontend
npm test                      # Run test suite
```

### Documentation

- Update relevant documentation when changing functionality
- Follow existing documentation style (Markdown)
- Add code comments for complex logic
- Update CLAUDE.md if adding new patterns or standards

## Support & Documentation

- **Deployment Guide**: [docs/OPENSHIFT_DEPLOY.md](docs/OPENSHIFT_DEPLOY.md)
- **OAuth Setup**: [docs/OPENSHIFT_OAUTH.md](docs/OPENSHIFT_OAUTH.md)
- **Architecture Details**: [diagrams/](diagrams/)
- **API Documentation**: Available in web interface after deployment

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Update README and other .md files to reflect the Ambient Code Platform naming (#228)
Follow-on to https://github.com/ambient-code/vTeam/pull/224/ from
@jeremyeder updating the README accordingly.

---------

Signed-off-by: Bill Murdock <bmurdock@redhat.com>

README.md, after:

# Ambient Code Platform

> Kubernetes-native AI automation platform for intelligent agentic sessions with multi-agent collaboration

**Note:** This project was formerly known as "vTeam". While the project has been rebranded to **Ambient Code Platform**, the name "vTeam" still appears in various technical artifacts for backward compatibility (see [Legacy vTeam References](#legacy-vteam-references) below).

## Overview

The **Ambient Code Platform** is an AI automation platform that combines Claude Code CLI with multi-agent collaboration capabilities. The platform enables teams to create and manage intelligent agentic sessions through a modern web interface.

### Key Capabilities

- **Intelligent Agentic Sessions**: AI-powered automation for analysis, research, content creation, and development tasks
- **Multi-Agent Workflows**: Specialized AI agents model realistic software team dynamics
- **Kubernetes Native**: Built with Custom Resources, Operators, and proper RBAC for enterprise deployment
- **Real-time Monitoring**: Live status updates and job execution tracking

## Architecture

The platform consists of containerized microservices orchestrated via Kubernetes:

| Component | Technology | Description |
|-----------|------------|-------------|
| **Frontend** | NextJS + Shadcn | User interface for managing agentic sessions |
| **Backend API** | Go + Gin | REST API for managing Kubernetes Custom Resources (multi-tenant: projects, sessions, access control) |
| **Agentic Operator** | Go | Kubernetes operator that watches CRs and creates Jobs |
| **Claude Code Runner** | Python + Claude Code CLI | Pod that executes AI with multi-agent collaboration capabilities |

### Agentic Session Flow

1. **Create Session**: User creates agentic session via web UI with task description
2. **API Processing**: Backend creates `AgenticSession` Custom Resource in Kubernetes
3. **Job Scheduling**: Operator detects CR and creates Kubernetes Job with runner pod
4. **AI Execution**: Pod runs Claude Code CLI with multi-agent collaboration for intelligent analysis
5. **Result Storage**: Analysis results stored back in Custom Resource status
6. **UI Updates**: Frontend displays real-time progress and completed results

## Prerequisites

### Required Tools
- **OpenShift Local (CRC)** for local development or OpenShift cluster for production
- **oc** (OpenShift CLI) or **kubectl** v1.28+ configured to access your cluster  
- **Docker or Podman** for building container images
- **Container registry access** (Docker Hub, Quay.io, ECR, etc.) for production
- **Go 1.24+** for building backend services (if building from source)
- **Node.js 20+** and **npm** for the frontend (if building from source)

### Required API Keys
- **Anthropic API Key** - Get from [Anthropic Console](https://console.anthropic.com/)
  - Configure via web UI: Settings → Runner Secrets after deployment

## Quick Start

### 1. Deploy to OpenShift

Deploy using the default images from `quay.io/ambient_code`:

```bash
# From repo root, prepare env for deploy script (required once)
cp components/manifests/env.example components/manifests/.env
# Edit .env and set at least ANTHROPIC_API_KEY

# Deploy to ambient-code namespace (default)
make deploy

# Or deploy to custom namespace
make deploy NAMESPACE=my-namespace
```

### 2. Verify Deployment

```bash
# Check pod status
oc get pods -n ambient-code

# Check services and routes
oc get services,routes -n ambient-code
```

### 3. Access the Web Interface

```bash
# Get the route URL
oc get route frontend-route -n ambient-code

# Or use port forwarding as fallback
kubectl port-forward svc/frontend-service 3000:3000 -n ambient-code
```

### 4. Configure API Keys

1. Access the web interface
2. Navigate to Settings → Runner Secrets
3. Add your Anthropic API key

## Usage

### Creating an Agentic Session

1. **Access Web Interface**: Navigate to your deployed route URL
2. **Create New Session**:
   - **Prompt**: Task description (e.g., "Review this codebase for security vulnerabilities and suggest improvements")
   - **Model**: Choose AI model (Claude Sonnet/Haiku)
   - **Settings**: Adjust temperature, token limits, timeout (default: 300s)
3. **Monitor Progress**: View real-time status updates and execution logs
4. **Review Results**: Download analysis results and structured output

### Example Use Cases

- **Code Analysis**: Security reviews, code quality assessments, architecture analysis
- **Technical Documentation**: API documentation, user guides, technical specifications
- **Project Planning**: Feature specifications, implementation plans, task breakdowns
- **Research & Analysis**: Technology research, competitive analysis, requirement gathering
- **Development Workflows**: Code reviews, testing strategies, deployment planning

## Advanced Configuration

### Building Custom Images

To build and deploy your own container images:

```bash
# Set your container registry
export REGISTRY="quay.io/your-username"

# Build all images
make build-all

# Push to registry (requires authentication)
make push-all REGISTRY=$REGISTRY

# Deploy with custom images
cd components/manifests
REGISTRY=$REGISTRY ./deploy.sh
```

### Container Engine Options

```bash
# Use Podman instead of Docker
make build-all CONTAINER_ENGINE=podman

# Build for specific platform
# Default is linux/amd64
make build-all PLATFORM=linux/arm64

# Build with additional flags
make build-all BUILD_FLAGS="--no-cache --pull"
```

### OpenShift OAuth Integration

For cluster-based authentication and authorization, the deployment script can configure the Route host, create an `OAuthClient`, and set the frontend secret when provided a `.env` file. See the guide for details and a manual alternative:

- [docs/OPENSHIFT_OAUTH.md](docs/OPENSHIFT_OAUTH.md)

## Configuration & Secrets

### Session Timeout Configuration

Sessions have a configurable timeout (default: 300 seconds):

- **Environment Variable**: Set `TIMEOUT=1800` for 30-minute sessions
- **CRD Default**: Modify `components/manifests/crds/agenticsessions-crd.yaml`
- **Interactive Mode**: Set `interactive: true` for unlimited chat-based sessions

### Runner Secrets Management

Configure AI API keys and integrations via the web interface:

- **Settings → Runner Secrets**: Add Anthropic API keys
- **Project-scoped**: Each project namespace has isolated secret management
- **Security**: All secrets stored as Kubernetes Secrets with proper RBAC

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**Pods Not Starting:**
```bash
oc describe pod <pod-name> -n ambient-code
oc logs <pod-name> -n ambient-code
```

**API Connection Issues:**
```bash
oc get endpoints -n ambient-code
oc exec -it <pod-name> -- curl http://backend-service:8080/health
```

**Job Failures:**
```bash
oc get jobs -n ambient-code
oc describe job <job-name> -n ambient-code
oc logs <failed-pod-name> -n ambient-code
```

### Verification Commands

```bash
# Check all resources
oc get all -l app=ambient-code -n ambient-code

# View recent events
oc get events --sort-by='.lastTimestamp' -n ambient-code

# Test frontend access
curl -f http://localhost:3000 || echo "Frontend not accessible"

# Test backend API
kubectl port-forward svc/backend-service 8080:8080 -n ambient-code &
curl http://localhost:8080/health
```

## Production Considerations

### Security
- **API Key Management**: Store Anthropic API keys securely in Kubernetes secrets
- **RBAC**: Configure appropriate role-based access controls
- **Network Policies**: Implement network isolation between components
- **Image Scanning**: Scan container images for vulnerabilities before deployment

### Monitoring
- **Prometheus Metrics**: Configure metrics collection for all components
- **Log Aggregation**: Set up centralized logging (ELK, Loki, etc.)
- **Alerting**: Configure alerts for pod failures, resource exhaustion
- **Health Checks**: Implement comprehensive health endpoints

### Scaling
- **Horizontal Pod Autoscaling**: Configure HPA based on CPU/memory usage
- **Resource Limits**: Set appropriate resource requests and limits
- **Node Affinity**: Configure pod placement for optimal resource usage

## Development

### Local Development with OpenShift Local (CRC)

**Single Command Setup:**
```bash
# Start complete local development environment
make dev-start
```

**What this provides:**
- ✅ Full OpenShift cluster with CRC
- ✅ Real OpenShift authentication and RBAC  
- ✅ Production-like environment
- ✅ Automatic image builds and deployments
- ✅ Working frontend-backend integration

**Prerequisites:**
```bash
# Install CRC (macOS)
brew install crc

# Get Red Hat pull secret (free):
# 1. Visit: https://console.redhat.com/openshift/create/local
# 2. Download pull secret to ~/.crc/pull-secret.json
# 3. Run: crc setup

# Then start development
make dev-start
```

**Hot Reloading (optional):**
```bash
# Terminal 1: Start with development images
DEV_MODE=true make dev-start

# Terminal 2: Enable file sync for hot-reloading
make dev-sync
```

**Access URLs:**
- Frontend: `https://vteam-frontend-vteam-dev.apps-crc.testing`
- Backend: `https://vteam-backend-vteam-dev.apps-crc.testing/health`
- Console: `https://console-openshift-console.apps-crc.testing`

### Building from Source
```bash
# Build all images locally
make build-all

# Build specific components
make build-frontend
make build-backend
make build-operator
make build-runner
```

## File Structure

```
vTeam/
├── components/                     # 🚀 Ambient Code Platform Components
│   ├── frontend/                   # NextJS web interface
│   ├── backend/                    # Go API service
│   ├── operator/                   # Kubernetes operator
│   ├── runners/                   # AI runner services
│   │   └── claude-code-runner/    # Python Claude Code CLI service
│   └── manifests/                  # Kubernetes deployment manifests
├── docs/                           # Documentation
│   ├── OPENSHIFT_DEPLOY.md        # Detailed deployment guide
│   └── OPENSHIFT_OAUTH.md         # OAuth configuration
├── tools/                          # Supporting development tools
│   ├── vteam_shared_configs/       # Team configuration management
│   └── mcp_client_integration/     # MCP client library
└── Makefile                        # Build and deployment automation
```

## Production Considerations

### Security
- **RBAC**: Comprehensive role-based access controls
- **Network Policies**: Component isolation and secure communication
- **Secret Management**: Kubernetes-native secret storage with encryption
- **Image Scanning**: Vulnerability scanning for all container images

### Monitoring & Observability
- **Health Checks**: Comprehensive health endpoints for all services
- **Metrics**: Prometheus-compatible metrics collection
- **Logging**: Structured logging with OpenShift logging integration
- **Alerting**: Integration with OpenShift monitoring and alerting

### Scaling & Performance
- **Horizontal Pod Autoscaling**: Auto-scaling based on CPU/memory metrics
- **Resource Management**: Proper requests/limits for optimal resource usage
- **Job Queuing**: Intelligent job scheduling and resource allocation
- **Multi-tenancy**: Project-based isolation with shared infrastructure

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please follow these guidelines to ensure code quality and consistency.

### Development Workflow

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Make your changes following the existing patterns
4. Run code quality checks (see below)
5. Add tests if applicable
6. Commit with conventional commit messages
7. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
8. Open a Pull Request

### Code Quality Standards

#### Go Code (Backend & Operator)

Before committing Go code, run these checks locally:

```bash
# Backend
cd components/backend
gofmt -l .                    # Check formatting
go vet ./...                  # Run go vet
golangci-lint run            # Run full linting suite

# Operator
cd components/operator
gofmt -l .                    # Check formatting
go vet ./...                  # Run go vet
golangci-lint run            # Run full linting suite
```

**Install golangci-lint:**
```bash
go install github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/cmd/golangci-lint@latest
```

**Auto-format your code:**
```bash
# Format all Go files
gofmt -w components/backend components/operator
```

**CI/CD:** All pull requests automatically run these checks via GitHub Actions. Your PR must pass all linting checks before merging.

#### Frontend Code

```bash
cd components/frontend
npm run lint                  # ESLint checks
npm run type-check            # TypeScript checks (if available)
npm run format                # Prettier formatting
```

### Testing

```bash
# Backend tests
cd components/backend
make test                     # Run all tests
make test-unit                # Unit tests only
make test-integration         # Integration tests

# Operator tests
cd components/operator
go test ./... -v              # Run all tests

# Frontend tests
cd components/frontend
npm test                      # Run test suite
```

### Documentation

- Update relevant documentation when changing functionality
- Follow existing documentation style (Markdown)
- Add code comments for complex logic
- Update CLAUDE.md if adding new patterns or standards

## Support & Documentation

- **Deployment Guide**: [docs/OPENSHIFT_DEPLOY.md](docs/OPENSHIFT_DEPLOY.md)
- **OAuth Setup**: [docs/OPENSHIFT_OAUTH.md](docs/OPENSHIFT_OAUTH.md)
- **Architecture Details**: [diagrams/](diagrams/)
- **API Documentation**: Available in web interface after deployment

## Legacy vTeam References

While the project is now branded as **Ambient Code Platform**, the name "vTeam" still appears in various technical components for backward compatibility and to avoid breaking changes. You will encounter "vTeam" or "vteam" in:

### Infrastructure & Deployment
- **GitHub Repository**: `github.com/ambient-code/vTeam` (repository name unchanged)
- **Container Images**: `vteam_frontend`, `vteam_backend`, `vteam_operator`, `vteam_claude_runner`
- **Kubernetes API Group**: `vteam.ambient-code` (used in Custom Resource Definitions)
- **Development Namespace**: `vteam-dev` (local development environment)

### URLs & Routes
- **Local Development Routes**:
  - `https://vteam-frontend-vteam-dev.apps-crc.testing`
  - `https://vteam-backend-vteam-dev.apps-crc.testing`

### Code & Configuration
- **File paths**: Repository directory structure (`/path/to/vTeam/...`)
- **Go package references**: Internal Kubernetes resource types
- **RBAC resources**: ClusterRole and RoleBinding names
- **Makefile targets**: Development commands reference `vteam-dev` namespace
- **Kubernetes resources**: Deployment names (`vteam-frontend`, `vteam-backend`, `vteam-operator`)
- **Environment variables**: `VTEAM_VERSION` in frontend deployment

These technical references remain unchanged to maintain compatibility with existing deployments and to avoid requiring migration for current users. Future major versions may fully transition these artifacts to use "Ambient Code Platform" or "ambient-code" naming.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
